W-14079120-firstusecaseexample-se (#296)
mulesoft/docs-rpa: rpa-home/modules/ROOT/pages/automation-usecase-legacysystemdataextraction-extractfrompdf.adoc

= Finding Information in a PDF
:page-pagination:
// number the headings to correspond to the numbered list of steps
:sectnums:

First, you need to find the order ID in the PDF.

As you can see in xref:automation-usecase-legacysystemdataextraction.adoc#confirmationletter-image[the image of the order confirmation letter], the order ID is always listed in a table next to the entry 'Order ID'. 
// Do we need an image of that part of the letter here?

> You can use this information to implement the workflow that contains the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this information to implement the workflow that contains the following steps:
```

. Copy the content of the order confirmation to a text file.
. Read the text file line by line to find the one containing the order ID.
. Check if the order ID is found.

> . Cut the order ID out from the text and store it in an activity parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Cut out the order ID from the text and store it in an activity parameter.
```

> image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-overview.png["The Workflow contains the steps in form of Action Steps. Some of the Action Steps are nested."]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-overview.png["The Workflow contains the steps in the form of Action Steps. Some of the Action Steps are nested."]
```

== Copying Text From a PDF to a Text File

> To open the PDF, you use the *Read PDF file* Action Step. Then you use the returned `ReadText` as input for *Write to Text File* to save the content as text file on your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open the PDF, you use the *Read PDF file* Action Step. Then, you use the returned `ReadText` as input for the *Write to Text File* to save the content as a text file on your computer.
```

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-pdftotxt.png["An out-filled pin symbol next to the input field shows that the variable is mapped to the text extracted from the PDF in a previous Action Step."]

The following image shows the result of storing the text content. Each line of the PDF has a corresponding line in the text file. Images are omitted.

// no alt text because description of image is contained in paragraph
image::extractorderid-workflow-resultpdftotxt.png["", 75%]

== Looping Over All Lines of a Text File

> To loop over all lines of the text file, you first need to count the number of lines by reading the entire file using the Action Step *Read from Text File*. You use the returned `line count` as the maximum value for the iteration counter. The counter also functions as the number of the line to read with *Read from Text File* in each iteration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To loop over all lines of the text file, you first need to count the number of lines by reading the entire file using the Action Step *Read from Text File*. Use the returned `line count` as the maximum value for the iteration counter. The counter also functions as the number of the line to read with *Read from Text File* in each iteration. 
```

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-loopovertextfilelines.png[""]

== Checking a Case and Catching Errors

> Because you don't know which line contains the order ID, you use *Select Case* to differentiate between the two possibilities.  If you find the order ID, you copy it from the text and store it in the activity parameter `order_id`. If you didn’t, which happens in each other line, you still want to complete the loop and the workflow and use *Force OK State* to avoid returning an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because you don't know which line contains the order ID, you use *Select Case* to differentiate between the two possibilities.  If you find the order ID, you copy it from the text and store it in the activity parameter `order_id`. If you didn’t find it, which happens in every other line, you still want to complete the loop and the workflow and use *Force OK State* to avoid returning an error.
```

> The criteria for deciding whether you found the order ID is that the string `Order ID` is part of the current line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have found the order ID if the string `Order ID` is part of the current line.
```

Reviewer: This sentence could also be put into a note instead.

Author: Left as is because I think it better reflects that the user must provide criteria for the Robot to decide if the ID is found as it is shown in the screenshot.

Reviewer: That makes sense! Sounds good!

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-checkcaseandproceed.png["To add a case, you must first pin the compare value to the Action Step."]

> == Retrieving a Substring and Saving it to a Variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Retrieving a Substring and Saving It to a Variable
```

> Because you know that the order ID is written after the text `Order ID`, you can remove these first nine characters from the current line (which contains the substring `Order ID`) by using the *Trim left (remove first characters)* operations of the *String Operations* Action Step. The rest of the string is the order ID. You store it in the Activity Parameter with the same name by using the result of the string operation as a Pin Variable in the *Set Variable* Action Step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because you know that the order ID is written after the text `Order ID`, you can remove these first nine characters from the current line (which contains the substring `Order ID`) by using the *Trim left (remove first characters)* operations of the *String Operations* Action Step. The rest of the string is the order ID. Store it in the Activity Parameter with the same name by using the result of the string operation as a Pin Variable in the *Set Variable* Action Step.
```

> # Finding Information in a PDF

Reviewer 2: Is this formatted this way for H&T?

Author: This is a new type of documentation inside MuleSoft help. Diane suggested to use it as a prototype.
Users/SEs find it difficult to assemble features of different RPA products to solve their use case. 
We wanted to include possible search terms in the texts and headings, so readers can find it easily. The headings reflect the kind of questions users put previously in our Slack channnels, e.g. 'How do you find a specific information in a PDF?', and probably use as serach terms in our docs.

Author: And, yes, you're right, the idea was to transform this topic into a training at a later time.

Reviewer 2: So this (hash sign) works in the local build for headings?

Author: Oh - I'm so sorry! This is Markdown syntax, which accidentally works in the local build. I will change this.

// number the headings to correspond to the numbered list of steps
:sectnums:

> First, you need to find the order ID in the PDF.

Reviewer 2: The short description should summarize the entire topic and give some user value.

The first step in extracting data from a legacy system is to find the order ID in the PDF.

Author: This again is human employee process context. For the human that's one step. For the robot it's several steps that are explained in the next paragraph.

As you can see in xref:automation-usecase-legacysystemdataextraction.adoc#confirmationletter-image[the image of the order confirmation letter], the order ID is always listed in a table next to the entry 'Order ID'. 

> // Do we need an image of that part of the letter here?

Reviewer 2: I would snip just that table and add it - to avoid the "you can see" and "next to".

Author: This is important information for impelmenting the workflow so that a robot can understand it. A visually impaired user can't use RPA because image recognition is an necessary part.

You can use this information to implement the workflow that contains the following steps:

. Copy the content of the order confirmation to a text file.

> . Read the text file line by line to find the one containing the order ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Read the text file line by line to find the one containing the order ID.
```

> . Check if the order ID is found

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Check if the order ID is found.
```

> . Cut the order ID out from the text and store it in an activity parameter.

Reviewer 2: Cut? or Copy?

Author: Technically 'cut' because we're in robot context here. (For a human it would be a copy operation.)

> image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-overview.png["The Workflow contains the steps in form of Action Steps. Some of the Action Steps are nested."]

Reviewer 2: Can you use callouts (to be consistent with our style) instead of boxes?

Reviewer 2: alt text - maybe The Activity Workflow listing transitions and nested action steps"?

Author: I'd rather not use callouts because I want to show where the overlaying windows belong to. (You have to double-click an element in the workflow to open them.) Diane and I decided on that in the review of the first draft a while ago. Also because of the re-org-related tasks, I don't have the time to do all the screenshots again.

## Copying Text From a PDF to a Text File

> To open the PDF, you use *Read PDF file*. Then you use the returned `ReadText` as input for *Write to Text File* to save the content as text file on your computer.

Reviewer 2: Is Read PDF file a button you click?

> image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-pdftotxt.png["An out-filled pin symbol next to the input field shows that the variable is mapped to the text extracted from the PDF in a previous Action Step."]

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure "out-filled pin symbol" is obvious. Suggest something like "A variable mapped to the text extracted...."

Author: That is the additional information that seeing readers can get from the screenshot.

The following image shows the result of storing the text content. Each line of the PDF has a corresponding line in the text file. Images are omitted.

// no alt text because description of image is contained in paragraph
image::extractorderid-workflow-resultpdftotxt.png['', 75%]

## Looping Over All Lines of a Text File

> To loop over all lines of the text file, you first need to count the number of lines by reading the entire file using the Action Step *Read from Text File*. You use the returned `line count` as the maximum value for the iteration counter. The counter doubles as the number of the line to read with *Read from Text File* in each iteration. 

Reviewer 2: "The counter doubles" might be confusing. Do you mean that it doubles the count or that it also functions as the number of the line...?

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-loopovertextfilelines.png[]

## Checking a Case and Catching Errors

> Since you don't know which line contains the order id, you use *Select Case* to differ between the two possibilities: In case you found the order id, you cut it out of the text and store it in the activity parameter `order_id`. If you didn't, which happens in each other line, you still want to complete the loop and the workflow and use *Force OK State* to avoid returning an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because you don't know which line contains the order ID, you use *Select Case* to differentiate between the two possibilities.  If you find the order ID, you copy it from the text and store it in the activity parameter `order_id`. If you didn’t, which happens in each other line, you still want to complete the loop and the workflow and use *Force OK State* to avoid returning an error.
```

Reviewer 2: Use since for time and because for result

Author: In theory, I knew that...:)

> Your criteria for deciding whether you found the order id is that the string `Oder ID` is part of the current line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The criteria for deciding whether you found the order ID is that the string `Order ID` is part of the current line.
```

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-checkcaseandproceed.png["To add a case, you must first pin the compare value to the Action Step."]

## Retrieving a Substring and Saving it to a Variable

> Since you know that the order ID is written after the text `Order ID`, you can simply remove these first nine characters from the current line (which contains the substring `Order ID`) by using the *Trim left (remove first characters)* operations of the *String Operations* Action Step. The remaining string is the order ID, which you store in the Activity Parameter of the same name by using the result if the string operation as a Pin Variable in the *Set Variable* Action Step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because you know that the order ID is written after the text `Order ID`, you can remove these first nine characters from the current line (which contains the substring `Order ID`) by using the *Trim left (remove first characters)* operations of the *String Operations* Action Step. The rest of the string is the order ID. You store it in the Activity Parameter with the same name by using the result of the string operation as a Pin Variable in the *Set Variable* Action Step.
```

image::usecase-legacysystem-extractformpdf-workflow-cutsubtringoutoftext.png[]

// Turn off section numbering
:sectnums!:

> ## Next Activity

Reviewer 2: I guess Salesforce doesn't have the cool Next and Previous links :(

Author: I didn't know we had them...

Author: I followed the style of the RPA tutorial.

Reviewer 2: OK, for future reference:
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Formatting+with+Asciidoc#FormattingwithAsciidoc-AddNextPageandPreviousPageLinkstoaTopic
